- Everyone out there in the live stream,
thank you so much for being here,
for either being part of the live show,
Pradvan, Dean, Teddy, great to see you all here again.
And if you're watching later, thanks for watching.
All right, Brian, shall we do this thing?
- Yeah, let's do it.
- All right.
Hello and welcome to Python Bytes,
where we deliver Python news and headlines
directly to your earbuds.
This is episode 246 recorded August 11th, 2021.
I'm Michael Kennedy.
- And I'm Brian Okken.
- And I'm David Smith.
- Hey, David Smith, welcome.
So good to have you here.
- It's good to be here.
- Yeah, you've been a suggester of topics, I believe.
You've sent in some ideas and thoughts for us
and well, we're gonna get a good dose
of that today for sure.
- Quite honestly, if I'd known
that you were gonna open this up,
I probably would have ordered some of those
'cause it was a little bit of a scramble to like,
oh yeah, I already gave them that tip.
So yeah, had to dig a little bit.
- Yeah, you've already shared all your favorites.
Well, your losses are gained
because you've made it easier for us in the past.
So thanks for sharing those things.
And yeah, thanks for being here.
It's gonna be great to have you.
- Definitely.
- Yeah, wanna give the quick elevator pitch on you?
People, what do people, what do they know about you?
- Well, I'm a recent tech convert, I'll say.
Over the last 10 years, I've been working in the manufacturing space,
either in quality engineering or manufacturing engineering.
And over the last couple of years, I've been using Python a lot more heavily.
I used to do a lot of BBA and Excel, which it was painful.
And I had got a suggestion from one of our equipment suppliers to say, "Hey,
you know, use Python.
It's really, really nice."
I kind of resisted doing it because I didn't want to learn something new.
It seemed intimidating because it's, you know, it's a programming language.
I'm not a programmer, right?
I finally caved when it came to trying to automate plotting,
which is pretty painful in Excel.
And yeah, once I started on it and had something useful,
but working in a couple hours, I was hooked.
And then I started looking for more and more resources,
found your show and got more and more into it from there.
I started digging into the web and it's just been a,
I'd say an upward spiral from there.
And about, probably about two and a half weeks ago,
I started in my first, I guess, official tech role
on a similar kind of domain for an automotive supplier,
doing data engineering work.
So it's been really exciting to be able to use Python
full-time as part of my job,
'cause the bits and times I got to use Python before,
that's always the parts I like the most.
So I'm happy to be doing it on purpose.
- Awesome, congratulations.
- I wish I could do it full-time.
(laughing)
- I remember my first full-time software development job,
I was like, I can't believe they're paying me to do this.
I better figure this stuff out before they fire me.
I can't believe I'm doing this.
It was so great.
So good.
All right, well, congratulations and happy to have you here.
Ryan, I feel like we should document this.
- Definitely should document it and test our docs too.
So one of the things I'd like to try,
did I just try to edit?
There we go.
Something that came up recently was Vincent Wormerdam.
I think we've had him on the show.
- We have a couple episodes ago, yeah?
>> Vincent announced that he's got a library called
MakeTestDocs and I love this.
The idea is it's a bunch of utilities that you can
use to help test your documentation.
It doesn't do it right out of the box.
You have to create your own test files to do this.
But the first example that he shows on his readme
is that you've got a Markdown file,
and it's got some Python code blocks in it.
You can make a test that goes through,
reads the Markdown, grabs the Python code and runs it.
If there's any problems with it,
if there's any exceptions,
it fails the test.
This is just brilliant. There's examples in here for doing it with docstrings and even class docstrings.
And then Vincent even did the com code and he did a little com code video on how to use this.
Yeah, and you put that in the show notes for people to check out.
Yep, there's a link to the tutorial with the video.
The suggestion, or the use case that he was talking about at first was
that maybe you're using make docs for documentation.
Therefore, you've got a bunch of markdown.
But my use case is going to be blogs.
So I think that's a huge use case, actually.
Yeah, I've got Python code in my blog source code.
It's markdown files.
I totally want this one on my to do list is to try this
to make sure that the blog content is accurate.
So that is super cool.
You know, one more thing that you might find interesting,
I think this is a more true software engineering type of solution.
But another sort of WYSIWYG as you work style of solution is PyCharm.
If you have a markdown file and you have Python code in there,
will highlight the errors and actually show you if like symbols are missing and stuff.
So if you had the markdown associated with the sample code,
and then you do stuff, a few little examples, it may actually show you the errors live as well.
Oh, that's cool.
Yeah, I mean, that's not like a CI, sort of keep it fixed, but that's a as you type kind of thing.
Yeah, and the other comment that he had is, I normally don't put asserting things are valid
in documentation, but the comment in the readme is that if you put asserts in there,
it'll get checked also. So you've got like unit tests built into your documentation.
So super cool. David, what do you think?
It's interesting, I'm just trying to figure out is a are you doing like a parameterized test and?
Looking at your inputs versus outputs for the code that's in the documentation or how do you actually know it's testing correctly?
It's a valid Python or what is the little code snippet we've got in that we're showing on the screen in the chat, but also there's a link in the readme to the read in the show notes.
to the README. The parameterize is that it uses the, like in this example, I'm saying,
go look in my docs folder and for everything that it finds in there that's a markdown file,
that'll show up as a parameterized, the parameterization of the test. So if I've got,
this test will run once per file. So if I've got three markdown files in there,
It'll the test will run three times. This is the most comprehensive and yet extremely short test I've seen
Long time it's three lines and it will basically work traverse a tree of markdown file hierarchy type thing
Oh, I do tons of really tiny tests. So yeah
Yeah, nice
Nice. Nice. All right
Alvaro welcome to live stream happy to have you here. let's see. Let's move on to the next one. I think
Speaking of users giving us listeners giving us ideas and helping us out here
I want to talk about something that i've been hanging on to for a little while
since march but i've finally decided it's time to talk about it and that is
creating queues
Out of process sort of asynchronous queue processing
so if i've got
say a web app or an API, or even if I'm testing a bunch of hardware,
and I want to kick off a bunch of jobs, eventually, I don't want to, you know, necessarily block
on all of them. I might want to push them down so other things can work on them.
You know, if I'm going to send a bunch of emails, if you've ever tried to send a thousand emails
in order, synchronously, it turns out that times out your web request. Don't do that. So a better
idea would be to like push them to a queue and have some sort of background process go, oh,
Oh, there's new emails to send.
Let me jam those on down the line.
So Scott Hacker sent over this pointer to this library,
that small but cool little one called,
what is this thing called?
It is called QR3.
And QR3 is a Q for Redis, and the three means Python 3,
'cause there used to be a QR that wasn't three,
that's not Python 3 compatible.
So here's like a re-imagining of that for Python 3,
or just a compatibility that got moved over.
So it's pretty cool.
We check it out.
The API and implementation or the usage is quite simple
as you could imagine.
So all you gotta do is you gotta,
it's built upon Redis Pi.
You've gotta have Redis installed.
That could be wherever.
It could even be Redis as a service
on some of these cloud platforms.
Run it in Docker, run it locally.
You have Redis Pi, and then you just go over
and you create a queue.
So you just say queue and you give it a name
and then some server connect info
like location, authentication and whatnot.
And then all you've got to do is you push items to it.
They could be just really simple things
like a bunch of email addresses you're gonna send,
but it could also be really complicated.
Like for example, it could be say,
Pydantic models that store all the data
that you need to process that request.
So that's pretty cool.
It has the default way of getting data over to it
is through CPickle.
And CPickle is better than Pickle,
but still has issues and other restrictions.
Some of the restrictions are you can't put
certain types of objects.
Like it wouldn't make sense to serialize
a database connection that has an open socket
or a thread or some weird thing like that, right?
But most of the sort of message,
here's the data you need to process,
you would send over, all that stuff would work.
And you can also create your own serializer
on a per-key basis, which is kind of cool.
So if you said, I want to only work with Pydantic models,
you could put the sort of from dictionary to dictionary
transformation with the validation
and all that kind of stuff.
I personally would not use CPickle
because one of the things you can run into
is if you upgrade your version of Python on one server,
but not the other,
'cause you're in the process of going from one to the other.
And some thing has a different structure and memory
and gets put over there.
The other ones can't read it.
There's always these challenges of pure binary matches.
I don't know, I would do that.
Probably serialize as JSON or something
and serialize it back.
But anyway, it's pretty cool.
What do you guys think?
- This looks nice.
I actually haven't used queues in Python before,
but it's on my to-do list.
Because I mean, designing complex systems,
breaking it up into different processes
with queues back and forth is a cool way to do it.
- Yeah, I'm kind of inspired by this.
I kind of want to do more stuff with queues as well.
David?
- Oh, it seems like a really clean, simple way to use queues.
I'm with Brian, I haven't really used it
in a Python context before,
but like the examples you gave are perfect.
You know, emails are, they take a long time.
So you don't want to be binding up your main application,
you need to dump those off into a background task.
And this looks really, really simple to use.
So, you know, I seem like it'd be worth a try for sure.
- Yeah, for sure.
Other things are like, you need to generate a report
that takes 30 seconds, you know,
pick off the generation and see if it's in the database
and just do some sort of like Ajax poll
until it's there or whatever.
It has some more features.
So it has a queue, which is first in first out,
as you can imagine.
It has a capped, I call it a capped collection.
I don't feel like it should be a captive queue
because it's implemented behind the scenes
as a captive collection.
They also say a bounded queue is another,
aka, so the idea is if you're doing like analytics
and logging and you're trying to eventually process that
and save it to the database,
but you wanna say, you know what?
We really don't want this queue to get more
than 100,000 items at a time
'cause we should be writing this to the database
and if something goes wrong,
it could completely wreck the server.
So you can create these captive queues
where you're like, I'm gonna start throwing away old stuff
if we don't get to it in time.
Here's a DQ, which to me sounds like getting stuff
out of a queue, but oh no, it's a double ended queue.
A double ended queue.
It should be a, yeah.
Anyway, it should be,
the idea is you can basically put stuff
onto the front or the back
and you can pop stuff off the front and the back.
So you could, for example, put low priority items
on the back or something's really important,
you could kick it up to the front,
right to the front of the queue.
And then finally, you also do a stack.
You can also do a priority queue,
which is like sort of pretty close to what I described,
but you can't jump ahead of the things
that have a similar priority, right?
Like if there's super urgent and then low,
you can put like a super urgent new thing
at the front of the super urgent ones,
but it would appear before all the others, things like that.
So this is all pretty neat.
What I really like about this is obviously
Python has queues built in, right?
Like that's just a data type.
List itself could basically be a queue.
You can pop stuff off the front and shazam, you have a queue.
But this is out of process, right?
This means if you have to scale out
for your worker processes in any sort of API,
or you want it to be able to be durable
across app restarts, things like that.
And if you think, oh, I'm not gonna scale out across,
I'm not having multiple servers.
Like almost every Python web app and web API
runs with multiple worker processes at a minimum.
So yeah, you're scaling up.
Anyway, I think this is pretty useful.
And if you're all about Redis, this is cool.
Redis seems nice.
I'm kind of inspired to do something like this with MongoDB,
but I'm also busy.
So probably not right away.
[LAUGHS]
And John Sheehan out there in the live stream
is telling me that--
learned a few years ago that DQ is pronounced "deck."
So yeah, double-ended.
Yeah, all right, so deck.
Thanks.
And then Teddy on live stream says,
I'm not too familiar with queues,
but how would it work if you were a queue process
that execute Python code,
it would end up being a process sequentially
because of the Python GIL.
Yeah, so are you ending up with like a serial process
because of this, a serial processing?
I think it depends on just how you create the workers, right?
So there's two ends that you build.
One end is the put stuff in the queue,
then you literally build the end that goes to the queue
and says, give me the next item.
And that's stored in Redis,
which obviously can support multiple clients.
So if you just scaled out the consumers of the queue messages,
the things running the jobs,
then you would escape the gill, right?
Because you would have multiple processes.
- You can do, you can have multiple things
feeding the queue as well.
- Yes.
- Multiple web requests or something.
- Yeah, absolutely.
Absolutely.
All right, David, what you got for us?
All right, well, are either of you heavy Pandas users?
I'm a Pandas admirer, and I use it a little bit, but I always feel like
when I come to Pandas, I know there's way more I should be doing with this, and this is so cool, but
not as much as I should be.
And I use Pandas pretty heavily in my previous job to do a lot of analysis,
especially on the one-dimensional data sets.
And it always happened.
When I first started using Pandas,
I was doing a lot of really bad things like it arose
and that type of thing.
And the more you learn about it, the better you get
at doing setup type operations.
But even in the last couple of months,
you'd think I'd have everything down.
But the API is huge.
And I always had these, ah, moments
because I learned about something like Transform.
And once I realized what you could do with Transform,
It simplified so many things that I was doing.
And the first item I have is an article that says,
25 Panda functions you didn't know existed.
I don't normally like these articles
'cause they almost feel a little bit clickbaity,
but this one actually had a handful of awe moments for me.
So I thought I would go ahead and share it.
So I have them listed in the show notes,
kind of the awe moments for me,
but between is a really nice,
really nice, I think it would consider it a method
on the data frame or a series,
and basically allows you to simplify logic.
Instead of trying to say greater than or equal to blank
and less than or equal to blank,
you can just say between values,
very similar to the operation
that you would do in a SQL transaction.
Styler, I had no idea existed.
You can actually apply styles
to the tables coming out of Pandas.
I do a lot to try to make my notebooks really, really pretty
so that I can convert them to HTML or another format
and share them with the business.
The business isn't typically like Notebooks,
but I'm trying because I can't stand the intermediate step
of copying to a PowerPoint.
But this would definitely help.
You can do gradients.
You may have a bunch of different functions
behind that.
Options is another one I've kind of already
played with a little bit.
But there's one in here that I wanted to try before the show.
I hadn't had a chance.
You can change the graphing back end on pandas
from @plotlib to something else.
So at some point I'm going to try changing it to plot because that's my preferred plotting
library for most things.
Convert D types is really nice if you know you have a categorical type set of information.
You can dramatically reduce how much memory is taken.
Mask was a nice one.
It basically allows you to quickly convert somewhere down here.
Quickly convert certain particular values or values that meet a criteria to another
value.
this oftentimes in multiple stages,
this would clean up that code significantly.
Any smallest and any largest also could have been very helpful.
Essentially, it's similar to a max or a min,
but instead of just pulling a single,
you could pull, in this case, five.
Clip at time.
>> Cool. If I want to see
the five largest revenue producing customers in my data frame,
I could just quick do that, yeah.
- Yep, and there are ways you can,
like with anything else, pandas,
you could use a couple other methods to get that done too,
but it's just so much cleaner to do diamonds
and largest five and then price.
It's just very clean and fast
instead of having multiple lines to do a transformation
and then a transformation and then another chain.
So I wanted to suggest this article, like I said,
I'd been doing pandas for a couple of years
and I still have these ah moments.
And this article,
Well, some of them are maybe quite odd moments for me.
They may be odd moments for someone else
because everybody probably knows 20%
and maybe a slightly different 20% of the Pandas API.
- Yeah, this is really neat.
I love these types of things that,
I mean, it's super easy to just scan through
and decide whether or not it's really helpful to you.
The one for me, the Pandas one that had the biggest,
like, oh my goodness, was web scraping
and like pulling HTML tables
and turning those into data frames.
So like, obviously I can go, yeah,
you go with like requests and beautiful soup
and do something, but then you still end up
with just a table of HTML.
But with pandas, you can say, read HTML
and then just give me table three as a data frame.
Like it's ridiculous, right?
- Now pandas has some really nice I/O tools too
around CSVs, Parquet, the most common data format types
and even some of the lesser common ones.
It's a really nice library overall.
But yeah, like I said, there's always some odd moments,
and it's nice to have an article that
highlights several odd moments for me.
>> Yeah, super cool. Go ahead, Brian.
>> The one that jumps right out at me was the number one one.
I didn't know that you could just write Excel with Pandas.
That's pretty cool.
>> I think there's a wrapper around write Excel
that simplifies converting a DataFrame to Excel.
But I think, right, Excel lets you do some more intricate
things with Excel.
- Yeah, that's pretty cool.
- Yeah, that's super cool.
All right, before we move on really quick
from the live stream, I liked when you asked
if anyone uses Pandas and likes it,
Dean Langston just said, "Yes, all caps, beautiful."
But then also suggested, pointed out this project
that he built that is like a give you live tips
while you work with Pandas in notebooks type thing
called Dove Panda.
So I literally am just checking this out now,
but as you work with it, you can see here,
like it gives you like little tips, like,
oh, by the way, do you know, you can concatenate like this.
If you specify to access one, you get, you know,
such and such and gives you a little,
little tips and tricks as you work with it.
So people can check that out.
- Indeed.
- Yeah.
- So it's a good reading on moments.
- Exactly, exactly.
Thanks, Dean, Brian.
I do love some FastAPI and I love Rich
and I'm looking forward to what you're gonna do
by trying to put these together?
>> Yeah. We've been watching Rich,
of course, and FastAPI a lot.
This article is by Hayden Kodelman, I think.
It's FastAPI and Rich Tracebacks in Development.
The idea is that one of the cool things that Rich has is
like these awesome tracebacks and logging.
They're just beautiful.
If you can say a traceback is beautiful,
it's because of rich probably.
They look pretty great and the logging is pretty good.
I'm just going to scroll down to some of these examples at the bottom.
It's tiny, but the logging is nice and colorized and stuff.
Then the exceptions,
one of the things with the tracebacks and exceptions
is there's a highlighted line number,
it highlights the actual file name and puts in lower,
more muted colors, the stuff you don't really need to care about right away.
And it's just kind of a nice way to do it.
>> It gives you syntax highlighting in your,
like keyword highlighting in your code.
>> Yeah.
>> In the code that is the stack trace of the crash in the traceback.
>> And so we've seen some examples of how to use the rich tracebacks from other programs.
but I haven't seen it actually written up by somebody else.
So this is nice. Using FastAPI,
FastAPI is awesome for building web APIs.
But how do you do this? How do you get your application to do this?
I'm not going to scroll through all of this,
but the gist of it is,
there's really only a few steps.
So this post walks through all of it with all the code.
For the most part, you create a database,
a data class with the logger configuration.
Then you need a function that will either install
rich as a handler or the production log configuration.
I like that he puts the switch in place.
The idea around this is,
when you're debugging, you're going to use these nice tracebacks.
But when it's in production,
it's not going to use that, it's just going to do the default logging.
Then you have to call logging basic config with the new settings.
Then a little note that if you're using UVA Corn,
you probably want to override the logger for that.
That's it. Really sets it up and it's got all the code in place so that
your FastAPI application can have
these lovely logs and tracebacks during development.
>> Yeah, that's super neat. David,
are you a fan of either of these frameworks?
>> I haven't had a chance to use Rich too much.
I have been watching textual pretty closely on Twitter because it's just phenomenal.
What he's able to do.
Fascinating, right?
And how do you have a document scrolling side thing in a terminal window?
What's going on here?
I love FastAPI.
I built my wife's website using Flask and I liked how FastAPI was similar to Flask in
a lot of ways.
But some of the syntax was a little bit cleaner, although with the newer version of Flask,
it kind of borrows some of the same syntax.
And it's just got a lot of really good nested built in the API documentation was really
I think that's kind of clutch when you're learning a new framework too, because you're
not having to do like curl commands or anything like that.
You can just bring up a web page and poke at it, you know, visually, which is which
is pretty nice.
So no, I really like fast.
I just, you know, other than, you know, kind of building some small toy things haven't
had a really compelling reason to use it yet.
So yeah, yeah, very cool.
These are compelling reasons, I think.
- Definitely, definitely.
Maybe some Arduino thing could run a FastAPI server,
who knows?
All right, so let me talk about some good news.
Good news, good news.
We've had a couple of things we've covered
about some visionary sponsors coming on
to support Python and the PSF and so on.
It's fantastic, right?
I've certainly whinged a lot about people
running multi-billion dollar revenue companies
and doing nothing really to give back
than maybe a PR or something.
But we've got Microsoft, we've got Bloomberg,
we've got Google as visionary sponsors, right?
And one of the things that that made possible
is the CPython developer in residence.
I don't know if it's directly related to one of those
or if it's just sort of like that,
sort of brought it all together.
But recently the PSF said they're going to have
a developer in residence position.
And a well-known community member,
friend of the show, Lucas Lenga,
has applied and got hired.
He's now the developer in residence.
This is a little bit old news, it's from last month,
but I wanted to make sure we gave it a quick shout out
because I think it's going to be pretty interesting
to know that there's a developer side person
inside the PSF making sure things are going.
So the PSF has seven, eight, nine,
I don't know, something like this.
I haven't got recent updates including this,
but include this position, full-time employees, right?
So there's a bunch of people who work there,
but to my knowledge, this is the first like developer person
rather than marketing, legal, whatever, right?
All that sort of business director, administrative side.
So this is pretty interesting.
- Apologies to everybody that works at the PSF
that's like, don't forget me.
- Yeah, no, no, no, those are super important,
but it's interesting that there's not been
a Python developer type of role within that group,
is all I'm saying.
So they put that out, LucasLinga is now part of it,
and there's some interesting takeaways here.
So basically, let me do the,
I'll just give a bit of a quote here for how Lucas decided
to position this and how he sees it.
He said, I don't really want this to be like,
hey, I am the appointed CEO of Python.
So listen to what I have to say, right?
He said, no, he's incredibly hopeful for Python
because of this and wanted to apply for it and so on.
He says, I think it's a role with transformational potential
for the project.
In short, I believe the mission of the developer in residence,
the DIR, is to accelerate the developer
experience of everybody else.
And that not includes just the core team, but most importantly,
the drive-by contributors submitting pull requests
and creating issues on the tracker.
So he's hoping that with this role,
he can do things like make sure that there's
a steady review of the stream of PRs and issues
so they don't get stale.
and there's not a backlog, triage the issues,
be present in the official communication channels
to unblock people if they get stuck trying to contribute,
keeping CI and test suites in a usable state,
making them run quick,
and keeping tabs on where the work is most needed
in the projects that are most important.
So he's sort of the,
it sounds to me almost like the technical person in the room
to help the community keep moving
and just making sure,
Oh, everyone's having a problem.
Many people having a problem trying to do a PR
'cause they can't get CPython to build.
Let's make that incredibly simple for them
and things like that.
- Yeah, I like his attitude of where he's going with this.
So.
- Yep, yep.
If I didn't point out,
Lucas is also the creator of Black, the Black Formatter,
which I know we've talked about
in a hundred thousand variations here.
So that's great.
David, how do you feel about this?
I think it's great.
Any full-time person they can have working for the PSF
or on Python directly is going to help increase stability.
And I like his approach too, where he's going to try to increase throughput
by maximizing everybody else's efficiency.
I think that's a...
Because it'd be easy to say, "Oh, I'm going to work on these features or on this."
But he's most concerned about making development for Python
as ergonomic as possible,
which I think ultimately will create more throughput
and a better Python in the long run.
- Yeah, and absolutely props to the PSF
because it's easy to hire somebody and say,
here's what I want you to produce for us.
It's harder to hire somebody and say,
I want you to be an enabler of other people
'cause it's hard to measure that, right?
Yep.
- One of the interesting things
that I think that he's doing is,
I'm not sure if he's gonna keep this up,
but it looks like he has so far,
is he puts out weekly report posts of what he's been doing.
So this, I can't imagine having that much public scrutiny
over what my work week looks like, but I mean--
- Brian, why did you spend so much time working on CI?
Come on.
- So it's pretty impressive
and it's cool that he's doing that.
The entire Python world is watching,
no pressure or anything.
- Yeah, he did say he was a little nervous about this
because this is the first year of this position.
And so the success or failure he has will influence
whether it continues and what happens in the future.
So super cool.
Let me get a little feedback from the audience here.
So Sam Morley says, "Good for Lucas, he's great.
"I watched a bunch of videos he did on YouTube
"about making music with AsyncIO."
I haven't seen those, I'll have to check them out.
And Dean out in the live stream says,
CEO of Python reminds me of a known joke in my country
where this famous newscaster was shouting,
get me the person in charge of the internet,
get me the person in charge of the internet.
- That's great.
- Being out to let us know what country that is.
That's awesome.
All right, Brian, you want the next one?
- What's that?
- You're next.
No, you already did yours, right?
- Yeah, David's next.
I gotta keep track of what's happening here.
David, you're next.
- Yep, so my next item is a library or framework.
I'm not sure which one it falls under called Dagster.
It is a data orchestrator
for machine learning analytics and ETL.
It's one of the first attempts I tried
for any kind of data pipeline.
And it's based in Python.
So you programmatically build up your pipeline
using Python and different decorators
depending on what kind of... if you're building a solid
or depending on what you're building in the pipeline
or if you're doing configuration, use different decorators.
And it took a little bit to wrap my head around it.
I think it had more to do with the...
just understanding how pipelines are typically constructed in industry.
But once I got my head wrapped around it,
it was really simple to use.
I felt like I could produce things pretty quickly.
One really nice thing that they do is they allow you to essentially
work on your pipeline locally,
then deploy to production to like a Kubernetes,
or you can deploy to Airflow or Dask or whatever
underlying engine you want to run your pipeline in.
There's very little transition there.
You're not developing something local and having to completely change it for
like a cluster or larger scale.
And another really nice feature it has is a UI called Daggett.
So you could do everything via the command line if you want to,
but it does come with a really nice UI
that allows you to see an overview of your pipeline.
It allows you to test it using the Playground.
You can update your configuration in the Playground.
You can look at previous runs to see if they passed or failed.
It gives detailed logging and error messaging.
So this by itself is pretty nice on top of an already very nice tool.
So I can give a quick demo too.
So this is the... I think it's the first part of this tutorial
they have you where you have multiple solids.
So these represent different pieces of processing.
And then like I said, you can use the Playground.
It'll check all of your configuration, everything to make sure it's correct
before it lets you run anything.
So if you have something misconfigured, it's not going to blow up halfway through a 30-minute
job.
And then when you...
Oh, no.
That's nice.
Like that?
Oh, no.
That's unfortunate.
No.
So I'll probably forego the real-time demonstration.
I think my terminal probably died is what that was.
But yeah, it'll actually show a run in sequence and show the different pieces that are completing
and feeding into the other piece too.
So it's not so much for this because it's a very small, quick pipeline,
but if you have longer SQL queries or something like that,
it'll actually show in real time how it's processing.
So you can get a visual intuition to what's going on
on top of everything else too.
Yeah.
A couple of the resources around this too,
if you want someone that explains it a little bit better than I do.
The Data Engineering Podcast had an episode,
and Software Engineering Daily also did an episode about Dagster.
So, you know, that's kind of where I first learned about it.
And there's a lot of really good information in those podcasts.
Yeah, these data pipeline frameworks are super interesting.
I've certainly realized just how valuable they can be.
Dean asks, David, how is this compared to Airflow?
Do you have any idea? Have you tried? Have you looked at either?
This was I haven't used Airflow.
This is the first my first stab at any kind of data pipeline.
And in my current job, we're not using Airflow or Dagster.
or using one of the cloud-based tools.
So it's, I think Airflow is more draggy, droppy,
more visual, but I could be wrong about that.
One thing I really liked about Dexter
is at least compared to what I'm currently using
is that you could programmatically
create these interfaces.
And technically the tool I'm using now
has an API that you can throw JSON against
to create your different resources and everything.
But it's nice having Python code
'cause that works a little bit better with my brain
than a lot of the draggy, droppy stuff.
- Yeah, yeah.
- But we're just--
- I did have the Airflow folks on the show,
on Talk Python, not the show, a little while ago.
It's not out yet, but last week maybe.
And they pointed out that it's mostly,
it's like pretty much all Python here as well.
So you program it in Python over on Airflow,
and then you have similar visual tools
to actually see what's happening,
but you can't interact with it through those things.
You can just kind of watch it and debug it and stuff,
from my understanding.
So I would put them in a pretty similar category.
I would say one thing that's pretty interesting is there's,
that's not an old plot, actually,
I wanted to, Airflow, GitHub is what I wanted
to sort of point out.
I was really surprised to learn that Airflow has 22,000 stars
on GitHub, which kind of blew my mind.
I thought of it as like a,
it's not this little framework that people might use.
Apparently it's popular.
I'm not really sure about Dagster.
I guess I could look as well.
- I think it's relatively new, so I'd be surprised
if it were quite as popular as Airflow.
But one nice thing that Dagster can do,
if you're running, or if you have Airflow pipelines
that you're using, you can use that server
to run Dagster 2.
It can basically pilot you something
that's compatible with Airflow if you need to do that.
So, and there's a couple of different,
I think, translation, ways you can translate it too.
So it's it seems like a pretty interesting tool. And like I said, I had developed a small pipeline in my previous job
It's kind of my first
stab at pipelines to to eliminate it in excel sheet that was doing a bunch of horrible awful
SQL queries I could just imagine that people are trying to do this with excel and it was probably wrong
It well, it was not necessarily incorrect, but it was wrong to do it. Well, it was well it was
It was an interesting
Excel's just very interesting to reverse engineering.
It's a lot of go-to statements.
It's ubiquitous, but it's definitely,
as far as programming production systems, not a good tool.
Yeah, very cool.
All right, so I got some more real-time updates here.
Teddy says, "I know one of the big differences with Airflow
is that you can use the output of a task
as the input of the next task.
From what I understand, Dagster is kind of a second-generation
data orchestration.
I'm unsure which generation Airflow would be,
but here we go.
And then Airflow mostly assumes you store
and load data in each task,
even though Airflow has something called Xcom,
which allows you to pass the output as input of the next.
Okay, interesting.
Yeah, thanks for all that background info there.
I haven't used either,
but I definitely think they're both neat.
And I feel there's a lot of places that are just like,
well, how else are we going to do it?
Of course we're going to use that spreadsheet, right?
And if they had tools like this, it would be very empowering.
One of the things I find very interesting about these frameworks
is usually what you end up building is like the little piece,
like load the CSV into the database,
or run the report that gets me the revenue for the day,
or what you end up building are very, very small pieces,
and you don't have to worry about the reusability,
the reproducibility, the durability.
You just go, "I'm going to build an incredibly small bit of Python,
and we'll just click it in as part of this workflow,"
which really seems to empower people,
almost like the microservices story,
but for data processing,
without all the hard deployment side of things.
- I hope that they, if they don't already have it,
I hope that they put a tool connected with Degster
called DegDabit, 'cause it needs to be there, I think.
Maybe some sort of capture tool or something.
DegDabit would be good.
- Yeah, yeah, I love the UI bit of it as well.
All right, quick bit of followup.
I guess, Brian, you wanna start?
You got any extras today?
- I've got just a vanity extra.
So one of the things that we noticed
Will mentioned about textual,
we talked about textual briefly.
The stars on textual is just going through the roof.
- I love the graph.
What like, is this the XKCD format of Matplotlib
or something, what is this?
- It's a, I have no idea.
- It looks great though.
Anyway, show us the other pictures.
Yeah, the stars are insane.
It's like a vertical line on a graph.
- One of my own projects has a similar trajectory.
So I wanted to just highlight that.
It's looking up too.
Of course, I only have 16 stars.
Will has like 3000.
So a little different, but still look,
it's done. - Wow.
Now that's, yeah, that's awesome.
(indistinct)
Hey, you just got to extrapolate a little bit.
No, that's really cool.
Awesome.
David, you got any extra stuff you wanna throw out?
- Yeah, I have one extra.
I didn't load it on my screen over here.
Let me see if I can pop it over real quick.
But, and this isn't Python,
but I know SQL and Python--
- Are you gonna go back to some nostalgic time
on the internet where you open up a DOS prompt
and type Win to start Windows?
What is this?
- This is a modern SQL.
It's a really fantastic slideshow
that goes through a lot of updates.
So if you're still doing SQL the old fashioned way,
it shows you how you can replace that with,
you know, better, cleaner, more concise versions of it.
There are so many things in here
that I was doing a lot of horrible hacky tricks to get to work
that you could take care of in one line for SQL.
Even with some of the newer things I've learned,
there's just so many great...
I don't know if you call them tools or methods or what,
but Python and SQL tend to work together a lot,
especially in the data space.
So if you're like me, where you have some, I guess,
self-taught SQL experience, something like this can be very helpful
to kind of learn some of the, I guess, better practices
for different things that you might want to try to do
with SQL, so.
- No, this is great because I learned SQL like in the 90s.
So it's changed a lot since then.
- And I was just thinking the same thing, Brian.
It's been at least 10 years since I've tried to refresh
my SQL skill.
So there's probably a lot of stuff that's,
oh, you shouldn't do this.
Like, why do you do this?
If you use this other keyword, it's more efficient,
safer, faster, come on.
Hmm
Yeah, that's like it
jealous of the people learning sequel now
Yeah, how about you Michael got anything extra? I got some follow-up some follow-up from last time
this comes to us from John Hagen and I
Think I probably is going to said this so I said, oh, there's really cool time
but if I would like about being able to use lowercase d dick and lowercase L list as
type hints rather than from typing import capital L list
or capital D dict, right?
So, oh, that's coming in 3.10, fantastic.
He's like, "Oh, you know, that's in 3.9,
"so it's kind of already out."
Oh, right, okay.
But he did point out some things
that are coming that are neat.
So for example,
previously we had to say,
if I want a potentially optional,
it could be none or it could be a list,
and the list, if it is a list, has strings,
you have say optional bracket list bracket str,
and those are all capital
'cause they have this parallel type implementation
over in typing, right?
In Python 3.9, I can now say optional
of lowercase l list bracket str,
and you might think,
who cares if it's lowercase or uppercase L?
Well, the difference is you don't have to do an import
and explain to people who don't know that code,
like, oh, you've got to go import this other type things
to save the type.
Yes, I know list is right there, but you can't use list.
You got to do something else, right?
So that's the feature that I was excited about that I said was in 3.10.
It's in 3.9, so hooray.
But he also pointed out that the union operators were simplified.
It used to be you would have a similar syntax for union as optional.
You would say union of bracket one thing comma bracket the other thing.
But now you can say just type one pipe vertibar type two,
and this actually allows us to model optional without importing optional.
So instead of optional of list of string,
we can just have list of string, pipe, none.
>> Yeah, this is cool.
I'm glad somebody pointed it out because
the 3.10 announcements don't say anything about optional.
But in effect, they do.
You don't have to use this anymore.
Are you going to start using this?
>> The pipe thing?
>> Well, yeah, and the optional thing.
Because I started to and then I realized that if I start using that,
then my code is 3.10 only.
Yes, exactly.
Which, it depends on the scenarios, right?
So, for say, TalkByThon training,
the code all behind that, I control the server.
Yeah, nobody's looking at it.
It's easy for me to make it the brand new thing.
If I were to say, generate,
if I were going to build an example app
for a course,
then I would be hesitant to use this right away.
I might wait a year or two.
Because I don't want to have to have people
have a bad experience.
Like, well, I have three nine.
That's pretty new.
That should be where like, nope, that doesn't work because of, I didn't want to
say that word optional, right?
Yeah.
Um, if it was an open source project, I guess it would depend on how, if I wanted
to support older versions, probably even longer there.
Wait, I don't know.
What do you think?
Yeah, I was thinking a library specifically, you'd probably want to almost stick with
the three, five to three, at least for a while to kind of flush out people that are
using some of the older versions of Python.
I'm using 3.9 on everything now, but I think for a lot of people,
it's still pretty aggressive to have a 3.9 or higher requirement for a library.
Yeah, I agree. A couple of bit of real-time feedback out there.
Sam and Dean both say there are Dunder Future Imports that you can do now
that will enable some of this stuff already.
of this stuff already. So like from Dunder Future import pipe.
>> I don't know if that's true or if it's a joke.
>> Well, I do know that the Dunder Future stuff does support the newer type information.
I don't know about for pipe. >> Okay.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Okay. We can do some after coding on this. Coding after the recording.
and we'll all know.
Oh, Dean's kidding, yeah.
So, but you really can, thank you.
You really can do some of these other type information
with the import under features.
Okay.
Ready for a joke?
- Yeah.
- All right, Brian.
So you're gonna have to help me along here.
- Okay.
- So there's two developers staring very worried
- Let's see the screen.
You have one section, then a big long quiet section,
and then some more.
So you be the very first person
and I'll be the second person here.
- Okay.
Okay, I hope it works.
- Do not hope.
Pray.
Pray it works.
Have you ever been there and just in this situation
where you're just like, oh, it must work.
If this doesn't work, we're done.
- Yeah.
Yeah, not so much in the software side of things,
but when I was a manufacturing engineer,
there was so many times we'd be troubleshooting a machine
on a Saturday for eight hours straight,
and you'd think you made it,
and everybody's just holding their breath,
crossing their fingers, "Work, work!"
because we want to go home someday.
So...
Yeah, I remember how... Go ahead, Brian.
No, I definitely feel this when I'm using it,
when I'm working on C++ code,
because you have to wait for it to compile
and then load it and then test it and stuff like that.
But even with Python stuff,
I still feel this when I'm working on CI tools,
because the continuous integration,
you're not sure if you got the syntax right,
the YAML right or whatever until you push it and see what happens.
>> Yeah. Yeah, CI is a good point.
You have so little visibility in there.
If it's not working, there's one better real-time follow-up on mine here.
It's like if you come over here and you look at the PEP 585,
it does say the implementation of some of these new features
under typing, this is the one that's coming out,
that came out in 3.9.
So as you can say from future import annotations
and then start using lowercase L and things like that
and lowercase D.
Who knows, I know Dean said he was joking,
but maybe you really can't get the pipe
to come out that way, but at least you can do
like these sort of three nine level changes
using a back to three seven, it looks like.
- Okay, cool.
- All right, cool, cool.
Well, that was a lot of fun.
- Yeah, it was.
I have another one, but I'm gonna save it, so.
- Good.
All right, well, I'm looking forward
to hear about it next week.
David, thank you for joining us.
- Well, thank you for having me.
- Yeah, yeah, and thanks for all the tips
and stuff you've had throughout the years.
And yeah, it's really good to be,
Have you here and congratulations on your first dev job.
That's fantastic.
- It is fantastic.
Thanks Dean for correcting us in real time.
That's awesome.
It's good.
- So yeah, absolutely.
Yeah, thank you everyone.
And oh, Sam does sadly show us the import pipe
from the future doesn't work, but yeah.
Thanks everyone.
See you all later.
- Bye. - Well, thank you.
[BLANK_AUDIO]